How I landed? My first ever paid internship. So this is how it looks like. I was in my second year of University, I passed my first year. I passed it really well. I was very happy came in with quite a lot of confidence. And, Somewhere in my second year.
00:23
I thought to myself, hmm. Maybe I should do an internship but then I was like, ah, it's just that's just, uh, beating around the bush. Let's just get straight into graduating. And yeah, like there was there was a part of me that thought, maybe it's a bit of a waste of time.
00:39
I was obviously completely delusional completely wrong and What happens was? My University like careers. Um, team had like Presentation. And they were pretty much talking about like statistics of where, where the students go and placement and like, what are the benefits? Blah blah blah. And, Arab Emma that was a stat that said that like if you go on the placement or sorry an internship You're like more likely to get a first class degree, which actually made me think.
01:21
Oh, this is interesting. Um, and that was actually part of the reason why I gained some initial motivation to start playing it was because It was it was for the wrong reason. It was for is to get a better grade. Um, but I did start applying And how did I start applying?
01:42
I literally created like a really ugly CV. Um, on like a CV template website. I actually even paid for like A CV Builder which I instantly cancelled because it was bad and I wasted 20 20 pounds, but it is what it is. Um, So if you need a free CV, template, go to alexgonic.com/resume.
02:11
And yeah, and I started sending applications. Luckily. Luckily, there is quite a low expectations for interns to have good CVS. So, I did manage to just get interviews with the projects that I've built and Are good grades that I had. My first ever. Internship interview was with Intel. Which is crazy.
02:36
And it was like, for an RTL design and fpga. Engineering role. I was not ready guys. First interview straight from the bat, I had to like code and see it was like Elite code style question. Was not ready. Um, and yeah, like that kind of put things into perspective as to, that gave me my first insight as to what I just got myself into I started doing Some basic like um, algorithms and data structures questions for any coding related things.
03:12
I started studying. Like, I just started looking at everything that I studied up. Until that point I tried to ask myself, do I really understand it? But look, nevertheless it was just the Mile of trial and error. I was looking for a job with an internship for only like 4 months.
03:36
And yeah, it just it just like fell into place. It was quite crazy. I remember Um, I was looking for a job and it was and I was already in. And the recruitment process with Cambridge Consultants and with Dyson, And this is another tip by the way that you shouldn't do.
03:57
It's When I did get my offer I was so over the moon I couldn't believe it. I was so. So happy. That I just like ins. Like I accepted it like the same day. And, Like the like a week later, I got an email from bison saying, hey, we would like to invite you for a final stage and I was like oh And, Why am I saying this?
04:26
But just take your time like if you if you do get, um, If you, if you do get an offer ever for an internship or for any role don't ever, just accept on the spot. Look at the terms and conditions. Look at the salary. Look at how your interview process is going with other companies.
04:46
But yeah. Like you must be thinking about Alex, how did you actually do it? Like it wasn't some sort of like, I didn't have some sort of magical rules that I followed the first time around. I just I just started and every single Uh, interviews round. I got a bit better.
05:04
I think I applied to I don't want to lie. I think I had around 15. I was in. 15 interview processors where like my CV went past. Uh, uh, a screening stage. And then I had a bunch of like these OAS that I failed. I had a few interviews, and yeah, and some of these just became and one one became an offer, and just another reminder.
05:36
All you need is one offer, right? All you need is one offer like it doesn't matter how many L's you take as long as you get one offer your rent. So just remember that too. So yeah, that's kind of how it looked like. It, it's crazy as well because I don't really like realise.
05:57
Where where I got myself into but my internship was actually really, really good. It wasn't just like some s***** company. I had a really, really good work experience and it's genuinely the reason why it it It was. Life-Changing, domino effect that Is making me a bedtime better engineer. It's the really small things.
06:22
Like those internships that you land in the summer. Uh, and my one was 12 months, but yeah. Don't take them for granted. Their career changing. They are the most important things. Um, they yeah, they are the most important piece of experience you might have, because without it, you have no entry point.
06:43
So yeah. Good luck with your searches if you are looking for internships. And I hope you have. A lovely rest of your day